---
layout: post
title: 'Toy Train'
date: 2019-03-03
categories: ACM
tags: 思维 CF
---
## 题目
codeforces #542 D(1)(2)题
Alice received a set of Toy Train™ from Bob. It consists of one train and a connected railway network of n stations, enumerated from 1 through n. The train occupies one station at a time and travels around the network of stations in a circular manner. More precisely, the immediate station that the train will visit after station i is station i+1 if 1≤i<n or station 1 if i=n. It takes the train 1 second to travel to its next station as described.

Bob gave Alice a fun task before he left: to deliver m candies that are initially at some stations to their independent destinations using the train. The candies are enumerated from 1 through m. Candy i (1≤i≤m), now at station ai, should be delivered to station bi (ai≠bi).

The blue numbers on the candies correspond to bi values. The image corresponds to the 1-st example.
The train has infinite capacity, and it is possible to load off any number of candies at a station. However, only at most one candy can be loaded from a station onto the train before it leaves the station. You can choose any candy at this station. The time it takes to move the candies is negligible.

Now, Alice wonders how much time is needed for the train to deliver all candies. Your task is to find, for each station, the minimum time the train would need to deliver all the candies were it to start from there.

Input
The first line contains two space-separated integers n and m (2≤n≤5000; 1≤m≤20000) — the number of stations and the number of candies, respectively.

The i-th of the following m lines contains two space-separated integers ai and bi (1≤ai,bi≤n; ai≠bi) — the station that initially contains candy i and the destination station of the candy, respectively.

Output
In the first and only line, print n space-separated integers, the i-th of which is the minimum time, in seconds, the train would need to deliver all the candies were it to start from station i.
## 思路
思维题，D(1)题简单模拟可以得出答案，D(2)题则需要找到规律解题，花费的时间是所有车站花费时间的最大值，而车站花费的时间为最小花费时间+(糖果数-1)*n.
## 代码
```clike
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
#define inf 0x3f3f3f3f
typedef long long ll;
const ll mod = 1e9 + 7;
const int maxn = 1e5 + 5;
// head
int n, m;
int dis[5010], num[5010];
int main()
{
#ifndef ONLINE_JUDGE
    //freopen("in.txt", "r", stdin);
#endif
    int a, b;
    cin >> n >> m;
    for(int i = 1; i <= m; i++)
    {
        cin >> a >> b;
        if(num[a]) dis[a] = min(dis[a], (b - a + n) % n);
        else dis[a] = (b - a + n) % n;
        num[a]++;
    }
    for (int i = 1; i <= n; ++i)
    {
        int ans = 0;
        for(int j = 1; j <= n; j++)
        {
            ans = max(ans, (j - i + n) % n + n * (num[j] - 1) + dis[j]);
        }
        cout << ans << endl;
    }
    return 0;
}
```