---
layout: post
title: 'The Monster'
date: 2019-05-06
categories: ACM
tags: 思维 字符串 CF
---
## 题目
Codeforces Round #459 (Div. 2)

As Will is stuck in the Upside Down, he can still communicate with his mom, Joyce, through the Christmas lights (he can turn them on and off with his mind). He can't directly tell his mom where he is, because the monster that took him to the Upside Down will know and relocate him.


Thus, he came up with a puzzle to tell his mom his coordinates. His coordinates are the answer to the following problem.

A string consisting only of parentheses ('(' and ')') is called a bracket sequence. Some bracket sequence are called correct bracket sequences. More formally:

Empty string is a correct bracket sequence.
if s is a correct bracket sequence, then (s) is also a correct bracket sequence.
if s and t are correct bracket sequences, then st (concatenation of s and t) is also a correct bracket sequence.
A string consisting of parentheses and question marks ('?') is called pretty if and only if there's a way to replace each question mark with either '(' or ')' such that the resulting string is a non-empty correct bracket sequence.

Will gave his mom a string s consisting of parentheses and question marks (using Morse code through the lights) and his coordinates are the number of pairs of integers (l, r) such that 1 ≤ l ≤ r ≤ |s| and the string slsl + 1... sr is pretty, where si is i-th character of s.

Joyce doesn't know anything about bracket sequences, so she asked for your help.

Input
The first and only line of input contains string s, consisting only of characters '(', ')' and '?' (2 ≤ |s| ≤ 5000).

Output
Print the answer to Will's puzzle in the first and only line of output.
## 思路
题目大意，有一个字符串由'(','?', ')'三种字符组成，？可以转换成另外两个，求出字符串中完美的序列个数，意思是字符串中某一部分是完美的即括号匹配的。还是想复杂了，还以为是dp,结果就是双重循环，好暴力一题。QAQ
## 代码
```clike
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
int main(int argc, char const *argv[])
{
    string s;
    cin >> s;
    int len = s.size();
    int  ans = 0;
    for(int i = 0; i < len; i++)
    {
        int l = 0, w = 0;
        for(int j = i; j < len; j++)
        {
            if(s[j] == '(')l++;
            else if(s[j] == ')')l--;
            else if(s[j] == '?')l--, w++;
            if(!l)ans++;
            else if(l < 0 && w > 0)l += 2, w--;
            else if(l < 0 && !w)break;
        }
    }
    cout << ans << endl;
    return 0;
}
```